well how do you there internet people
its bubble again so tonight we're gonna
talk about how is wrong I think it's
important to admit when you are wrong
you've probably seen it in the comments
section you've got somebody saying
asylum seekers have to apply for asylum
in the first country they come to and if
you've read our comments section I'm
sure you have seen me say cite that law
show it show me show me the treaty
without fail they cannot so I got
curious and I started looking trying to
figure out where this idea came from and
I found an EU court ruling from the High
Court there that basically said refugees
have to apply in the first member state
they come to if that was to be applied
to the US it would mean that if an
asylum seeker entered in Texas they had
to apply in Texas they couldn't go to
Louisiana to apply that's what it would
really mean but I could see how somebody
could be confused by it so that's what I
was saying you know I was like this is
where it came from
not it's not international law well the
other day I'm over on YouTube and
somebody comments and says beau you're
wrong there is a treaty that says that
I'm like great another one clicked a
little read more button and this guy's
got a link and I don't even have to read
the link open it up just have to read
the title and sure enough I'm certain
that is where it came from
so we're going to talk about the safe
third country agreement okay
this is a good example of why you should
not get your legal information from
means you have to read the whole treaty
or law or statute whatever and then you
have to read all the statutes and laws
or treaties that that trees cites to
really understand it in most cases in
this case all you had to do was read the
full title it is the safe third country
agreement between the United States and
Canada it applies to two countries and
two countries only basically what it's
saying
is that if a Honduran for example
travels through the u.s. gets to the
Canadian border and tries to apply for
asylum they can't they have to apply the
u.s. if somebody took a flight into
Canada and then went to the US border to
try to apply for asylum they can't they
have to apply in Canada but that only
applies to the US and Canada
nowhere else in the world nobody else is
a signatory of this treaty its bilateral
two countries so it has nothing to do
with a Honduran coming up from the
Mexican border nothing now here's the
funny part about this is while people in
the US are trying to expand this treaty
and say look no they can't come here
here's this this treaty that Mexico
didn't sign the Canadians the
Conservative Party of Canada there's a
whole bunch of parties in Canada that
are trying to scrap it because to them
the United States is no longer a safe
third country we have fallen out of the
requirements because of our treatment of
asylum seekers and refugees we have and
because of our torture actually our
stance on what did they call it enhanced
interrogation techniques that also plays
into it because that was a requirement
yeah the Canadians are trying to scrap
it but here's the other part that's
really funny about this Trump knows this
president Trump is completely aware of
this we know he's aware of it because he
actually tried to get Mexico designated
as a safe third country and the entire
world laughed at him
okay this is a country where sex
trafficking human trafficking there's
been mass slayings of migrants people
are targeted for their sexual
orientation it is not a safe third
country by any standards certainly not
by the high standards set out by that
treaty okay but the point I want
everybody
to take away from this especially if
you've been walking around saying they
have to apply in the first country they
come to the real thing you need to
really let kind of sink in is that
people that know immigration law were so
dumbfounded by this widespread belief
that you have to apply in the first
country you come to that they were out
there you know Sherlock Holmes ended up
trying to figure out where the idea came
from because it's such a foreign concept
it's so wrong that that people were
curious where the initial idea came from
and they actually argue about it and
debate it now I have moved myself I was
wrong I don't think that it came from
the EU High Court ruling I think it came
from the safer country agreement either
way it doesn't mean that you have to
apply in the first country you come to
unless unless you're moving along the
u.s. Canadian border
that's the only place this this treaty
applies anyway guys knowledge is power
don't get your legal information from
memes just a thought you all have a good
night